APIs

You know what these are. Ways for companies/websites to allow developers to
interact with their data/use their service in a particular way/link up their
data to an independent service/program that they're building. APIs generally have terms
and conditions on what is allowed and what isn't. You generally can't scrape
websites for their data, you'll have to use their API, with some exceptions.
They're sort of like contracts on what types of data is available and what
methods and protocols can be used to access them.

Official definition: Set of commands, functions, protocols, and objects that
programmers can use to create software or interact with an external system.

jQuery is an API.

We're mostly focused on reading data through an API from someone else's SERVER
to our server. That's the most powerful application of APIs.

ENDPOINTS, PATHS, PARAMETERS, AUTHENTICATION

REST API stands for Representational State Transfer API.

Endpoints: in this case, it's a URL that you can put in your browser. And when
you do, it'll give you the data that the API is supposed to return. Submitting
the URL in the browser is the GET request. An endpoint is pretty much just the
starting URL. You can use paths and parameters to narrow in on the exact data
requested depending on how complex the API is.

Paths & Parameters: you can use these to narrow down on a particular piece of
data or information from the server.  In terms of the URL, paths are the part that
comes after the '/', for example '/programming', if you're using a random joke
generator API and want to get only programming related jokes.

Parameters are like paths, except they're more dynamic. Parameters exist for complex
APIs in the case that the developer couldn't make a path for every possible use
case. You can use custom words/queries, that is, queeries that weren't explicitly
specified by the API creator as a path. Parameters are the part that come at the
end of the URL, after the question mark, as a key:value pair. For example:
`?contains=debugging` if for some reason you were searching for jokes that are
related to debugging. If you have multiple parameters, they are separated by an
ampersand "&".

As a whole example: https://sv443.net/jokeapi/v2/joke/programming?blacklistFlags=nsfw&type=single&contains=debugging

Here we have the endpoint:   https://sv443.net/jokeapi/v2
We have as a the path:       /joke/programming
We have as parameters:       ?blacklistFlags=nsfw&type=single&contains=debugging


AUTHENTICATION & POSTMAN

Now for larger APIs, they'll probably want to monetize their traffic or at least
limit traffic. Because otherwise they'll just give all their stuff away for free.
That's where authentication comes into play. Often times, they'll allow free
usage up to a certain number of requests per minute. Say up to 60 requests per
minute.

To use an authenticated API, you'll want to create an account and then sign
up for an API key. This is your unique API key that you can use to identify
yourself to the API provider, who'll monitor the usage associated with that
particular key. Then take a look at the API docs to see how to correctly query
for the API's data. You can look at their sample API calls to get a template for
your API requests. Generally, your API key will need to be passed in as a
parameter of your GET request for the request to work. That's how they'll know
who is requesting the data.

Now, it's really easy to make typos when you're testing different paths and
parameters for APIs in your browser. So we can use this app called Postman to help us
keep track of the different endpoints and paths and parameters we
are using to interact with APIs. You can dynamically toggle different parameters
etc. and send the requests directly from the app. It'll return the data in a
'prettified' format too, so it's easier to read, instead of in a raw JSON
format that you'd get directly using the endpoint with paths/parameters.

JSON

Stands for javaScript Object Notation. It isn't the only data format that you
will get from APIs. You can also get XML or HTML. But JSON is the most popular
and is still growing in popularity.

JSON objects aren't exactly the same as JS objects. There is no `let` or `var`
in front. The name of the object is in quotation marks, and the keys of the values
are also in quotation marks.

There's a Chrome tool called JSON Viewer Awesome, that allows us to prettify
JSON output directly on the browser and allows us to view it in a tree structure
or a chart structure, etc. We can also use it to click into the JSON objects
on the browser to copy their paths. In really long JSONs it can be hard to figure
out the path to select the exact data you want, so this can help out.


PRACTICE SITE 11 (WEATHER API)
We can use the HTTP module (which is a native module in Node) to send get requests
to external servers (APIs in this case). Because it's native, we don't have to install
it using npm. It's already included in the node bundle.

Remember that when you console log something to the terminal in a web server you
made, it'll log to your terminal, not the browser. Because your terminal is acting
as the console. It is the interface etc.


PARSING JSON
If something isn't getting loaded as you'd expect, you can return the status code
of the callback function in the get request to see what code is returned to help
diagnose what you could be doing wrong.

We use the `.on()` method to tap into the data returned in the get request. But
we need to parse it into a javaScript object from the default Hexidecimal to actually
be able to understand it.

Examples of both seen in the app.js file in Practice Site 11. (The opposite of
JSON.parse() is JSON.stringify()).


RENDERING API DATA ON BROWSER
Remember that we can only `res.send` one thing for each get request. So if you
want to render multiple items on the browser, we use `res.write` for each item
and then call `res.send()`. Also remember that we can type html directly
within the `res.send()` methods themselves. (Shown in app.js of practice site
11.)

BODY-PARSER is an npm package that we can use to look through the bodies of post
requests and fetch the data based on the name of the input (that we assign in
our html forms). We've done this before in our calculator website.

See app.js for code that takes user input to make a unique request to an API,
then returns unique data to the rendered webpage based on the data retrieved
from said API.

When you serve a website from a server using express.js, you have to specify
`app.use(express.static("public"));` in order to display static HTML/images etc.
"public" is the name of the folder in which all static material must be saved.
(We've done this in our practice site 12 - newsletter). Static material is
anything that will always be the same. Non-dynamic code, something like locally
stored CSS files or images.


PRACTICE SITE 12 - NEWSLETTER

We're going to build a visually basic website that requests someone's first and
last name through a basic form, along with their email. We're going to route
that info to our mailchimp account so that we can have easier control over our
mailing lists in a GUI. We'll be doing all this through the back-end, using the
Mailchimp API. Like a real developer lol.

Mailchimp is an email marketing PaaS & SaaS company that enables us to manage email
mailing lists, dynamically send out emails, and track the entire process through a GUI.
There's definitely more functionality, I just don't know a ton about it.

Mailchimp will provide you with an API key after you register, which is a regular
API authentication token. You can also find an "audience" or "list" id, which is
an ID that's used to specify which mailing list you're adding a subscriber to.

With APIs, including Mailchimp's, there's usually a whole section of the site
dedicated for developers. That's where you'll find all the info for API keys
and list IDs and how exactly to request data from their API and the data format
they are expecting if we request to SEND data through their API. There should be
examples of get and send request code snippets to base your own off of. For
example, to create a new mailing list, Mailchip requires that we provide the list
ID parameter as a string, and the member data as a flat-pack JSON array. Each element of the
members array also can have properties such as: "email_address", "status", "merge_fields",
etc. Merge_fileds are data columns that are used to dynamically add data into an
email. In this case, we can add the user's first and last name into the header
of the email to make it more personal. You can see all this information on
mailchimp.com/developers or by navigating your site settings etc.

In the last site (site 11) we used the https module, which is native to node, to
get data from the weathermap API. Here we'll use the same module but to send
data to mailchimp.

You can see in app.js (Site 12) the completed code that successfully takes in
user input on our HTML form, and adds that user to our mailchimp mailing list
through the API. It's a bit complicated, but not really once you understand what
each part is doing and how to find help when things aren't working. You need to
know how to navigate the API documentation to be able to implement these APIs.
There are also probably things that we still haven't implented, especialyl in a
QA/bug sense. Like if a user types in an email that's already on the account,
mailchimp doesn't add that user to our mailing list. It sends back an error that
says that the user is already in our list and if we want to overwrite that data,
then we'll have to specify that in our post request. But we can only see this if
we console.log(response) the response to the post request (as shown in app.js).
Still lot's to learn.


ADDING SUCCESS AND FAILURE PAGES
So we can send a user an HTML page for success if their form is submitted successfully.
And we can create another page for failure, if something went wrong. On the failure
page, we've provided a way for the user to try again by sending them back to the
input page through a button. There are two ways of doing this. Either we redirect:

`app.post("/failure", function(req,res){
  res.redirect("/")
})`

or we just render the page again:

`app.post("/failure", function(req,res){
  res.sendFile(__dirname + "/signup.html")
})`


HEROKU
How do we actually host our website live on the internet?

We could buy our own server, and figure it out. But that's expensive and takes
space and money and creates noise and heat.

Github pages, which we used super early on, is a way to have our websites be live
on the web. It's a really easy way to deploy a website. However, You can only
have 1 Github page per account, and you can only serve static websites, i.e.
websites without any functionality.

Heroku is a company that can host our websites live on the internet. It's a
freemium model, so we can use their service to host up to 5 relatively low traffic
websites.

To use Heroku, we can follow the step by step instructions on their website for
whatever language we aim to develop in. In this case node.js:
https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/getting-started-with-nodejs

The first step to using Heroku, is to download the Heroku command line interface:
`brew install heroku/brew/heroku`

Now we can use the `heroku` command to from our terminal and `heroku login` to
log in to the Heroku CLI. You'll have to input your user and password that you
used to sign up for Heroku with. You can check which version of heroku you have
by doing `heroku --version`. You can also do this for node, git, npm: `node --version` etc.

Then they ask us to clone an example app that heroku made and committed to their
own Github. But we're not going to do that. We're going to create our own app
and deploy our newsletter website that we just created.

To make our app.js file able to work on heroku, we have to change the port we
are listening on from 3000 to `process.env.PORT`. This is a port that Heroku will
define on-the-go. We can still add 3000 as a secondary port in the case we still
want to run our site locally. (Shown in app.js)

We also have to create a `Procfile`. This is the file that tells Heroku how to
start our application (website, they're using app and website interchangeably now
because our site has some actual application functionality). Up to now we've been
doing `npx nodemon app.js`. But noramlly we'd have nodemon downloaded globally
so we coudl just do `nodemon app.js`. However, we're only using nodemon to keep
our webserver constantly reloaded so we can continue editing our file and the
web page rendered will dynamically reload to reflect the changes. In a world
where our file is complete, we would just do `node app.js`. So that is what we
write in our Procfile. And it is imperative that the file is named exactly
'Procfile' and that it is in our root directory. Heroku will look for this file
and run the instructions we write in it.

This is how things actually work in the
automated world. Always wondered about this stuff. It's so simply, but so
important to understand, and yet no one ever teaches you about it for some
reason. The hardest part about learning computer science, for me, has always been
understanding the meta things, never that actual code. That shit makes sense. Still
have to learn it but make sense. But how you actually link all the components together,
how you actually write a script that runs without you, how you actually create a database,
not understanding that shit makes me unable to actually put any of my coding knowledge
to use. It's like learning how to mix together ingredients but not knowing how to
use or even turn on the stove. Like where do I start, how does it all actually work?
I need to understand the infrastructure. I need to understand the terminal, Github,
how `eventListener` actually works. These things are important.

Anyways. After creating the Procfile, we need to initialize a new git repository
in our directory. We don't need to set up a GitHub remote repo, just a local one.
It'll help Heroku load up our files and help us with version control etc. So:
`git init`
`git add .`
`git commit -m "First Commit"`

Now we do `heroku create` in our directory. This will create your app and will actually give it a random name. In our case
it gave us: fathomless-wildwood-23092. It'll also give us a website that's already
live for us to use. It just won't have any actual content yet, bc we haven't yet
put up our files: https://fathomless-wildwood-23092.herokuapp.com/. (We can also pass
a parameter to the command to give the app our own name.)

To deploy our files we do: `git push heroku master`. After this, our site should be
live! But give heroku a few minutes to load everything up correctly. It might
not load immediately.

And voila, you have your first live web application!

If somehting isn't working, then you can do `heroku logs` to see where the process
failed etc. Say if we forgot to specify `process.env.PORT` as the Heroku port
or we messed up the Procfile in some way etc.

Wow that was a super intense chapter. but rewarding.
