HTML tags all have default CSS style attributes already applied by the browser.
You can check via w3 schools etc.

You can add internal CSS in your HTML pages by enclosing it in <style> tags.
Then you just type the name of the tag you want to style and put the style code
in curly brackets.

But you don't really wanna do this because then you'll have to copy paste
across all your different html pages of your website. So you're going to want to
use external CSS, and create a separate CSS doc.

It's key to realize that a web page is essentially just a bunch of boxes. And
you can apply style rules to these boxes to affect how they appear.

You can use a chrome extension called pesticide to visualize those boxes.
But I'm not bc it isn't loading for some reason.

If you have multiple pieces of CSS that are trying to style the same element
on the web page, only one will be applied. Their is a hierarchical order to
which style designation is applied to HTML elements. You can inspect the
elements using chrome developer tools to see which lines of code from which
documents are and are not being applied to which elements. You can toggle
between the elements being applied which will comment out the relevant section
of code and thus alter the appearance of the site accordingly but won't actually
change the code if you refresh.

The developer tools on Chrome seem pretty powerful.

You should remember though that the hierarchy is inline then internal then
external. That is, CSS written inline will override internally written CSS,
which will in turn override an external CSS document. So you can write out
a huge external CSS doc but then override it for one-off changes internally
or in-line. But best practice is to put all styling changes within your larger
external CSS doc.

It's good practice to order your CSS selectors by alphabetical order to help
with debugging, etc.

We use the class attribute within HTML tags to differentiate tags of the same
type which we want to style independently of each other.

Now you can also have IDs in addition to classes. IDs ought to be used only
once. There can't be multiple tags with the same ID, however there can be of
course multiple tags of the same class.

Similar to internal vs external CSS, there is a hierarchy in tag-based, classes,
and IDs. ID based CSS styling is applied first, if it doesn't exist then it
class specifications are used, and finally tag based CSS styling is used.

Also, a single HTML element can have more than one class, but as mentioned only
one ID.

Try not to use IDs for selecting tags for CSS styling if you can avoid it.

There are also Pseudo selectors. They have a colon in front of their names, and
can be used to take advantage of html tags when they are in different forms. For
example, you can use the :hover pseudo-selector to apply a particular style when
an element on the page is being hovered over by the cursor.
