Bootstrap is a front end library, initially developed by Twitter. It is the
most popular front end framework library. It is the seventh most starred repo
on Github. Bootstrap is a collection of HTML/CSS/JS design templates and
elements that you can easily just drop into your code. Free and open source. You
just download the source code and you have all these extensive templates laid
out for you. You just need to label your elements with the appropriate classes
to get the styling you want. Bootstrap also makes it easy for your design and
layout to be adaptable to mobile.

Website is getbootstrap.com.

There are different versions of Bootstrap that come out as it progresses.
Currently we're on Bootstrap 4.5.2, but the class is on 4.0.0. Actually the beta
for Bootstrap 5.0.0 is already released so there might be a bit of a transitional
cost to learning 4.0.0 now but I'm going to go ahead since it's what the material
is currently based off. Actually there is already a mismatch since I'm using
4.5.2 so we'll see. At any rate, later on I'll learn the major shifts from version
4 to version 5. I think the biggest difference is that 5 drops support for jQuery,
so we'll see about that.

Bootstrap also has all these examples templates that are really useful. It has
all the pages from the Apple website (checkout, home, etc.) and all the HTML/CSS
code needed to create them. It's all stored in the source files when you
download bootstrap.

Codeply is kind of like codepen.io in that it's an online code editor that gives
you live renditions of what your code will look like.

INSTALLING BOOTSTRAP

1. Simplest Way: Copy the Bootstrap CSS CDN, and paste it into your HTML as the
stylesheet. Because Bootstrap is one of the most commonly used frameworks, a lot
of commonly used websites use it. So clients are likely to already have the file
cached on their browser. So most of the time, the request won't even have to go
to the CDN server, it'll just pull up the cached information from the browser.
- CDN:    Content Delivery Network. Network of geographically dispersed servers
          which delivers cached content from websites to to end users based on
          geographic location of the user, origin of static content, and content
          delivery edge server. Instead of having all requests for your website
          routed through your main server, when you use a CDN, your static
          content is cached and stored on all of these other servers. Static
          content includes images, stylesheets (css files), javascripts, Flash,
          etc. Now when a user visits your site (original server), the CDN
          technology redirects them to the closest server to their location.
          This improves latency. It's a form of load balancing. It takes more
          time to load a content from the other side of the world than it does
          if the server is in the same country etc. Using a CDN improves site
          load time, improves crash resistance by distributing requests to
          multiple servers, improves User Experience (bounce rates etc.), and
          leads to higher SEO ranking.
- Maxcdn: one of the largest Content Delivery Network providers. They accelerate
          your site and decrease the server load. They help accelerate popular
          sites including The Next Web, Disqus, Stackoverflow, BuySellAds, and
          others.

2. Copy and paste their starter template. It's on their main site. This is
   pretty much the same thing as above, it's just that the starter template
   includes CDN links for Javascript in addition to the CSS one.

3. Download the source code and store it in a local folder. Then use it as a
   local stylesheet. The downside of this approach is that it negates any
   browser caching on the client side.

WIREFRAMING
These are very low fidelity drafts of what you're planning to build.
- Can use sneekpeekit.com or balsamiq.com to wireframe out some sketches
Mock ups are way higher quality visualizations of design plans.

dribble.com is a place where designers put up their portfolios.

NAVBAR
- You know what navbars are. When designing your page, check the bootstrap
  documentation for whatever type of element you're working on. In this case
  it'd be https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.5/components/navbar/
- It's sort of like you're writing HTML classes and IDs to select for particular
  types of CSS styles, opposed to writing CSS selectors for particular HTML tags.
  I like it better this way I think.

Reminder that bootstrap is really useful for creating responsive websites. That
is, it is adaptable to desktop, ipad, mobile, etc.

GRID LAYOUT
One of the most annoying parts of using websites is layout: positioning things
on the screen etc. CSS also has a grid system that makes things a little bit
easier.

You can set up a grid framework using a structure of multiple divs with classes
that are either "row" or "col". It's a dynamic setup so the grid will equally
space out your columns depending on how many you specify. The max number of
columns in a given row is 12. There are many setups here. You can leave it to
dynamically space out, you can specify the exact number of spots out of 12 you
want your column to take, you can add furthur dynamism by allowing for different
layouts depending on your monitor size (desktop, tablet, mobile, etc.).

If you give a particular column the class of `col-3`, it will take up "three
out of the twelve spaces available", that is, it won't be dynamic. If you specify
`col-md-3` then your column will take up 3 spots for any screen size from tablet
and larger (so 1/4th of the width of the screen). I've included an example at the
bottom of index.html of the Tin-Dog exercise. Also always check the documentation
if you're confused about anything.

CONTAINERS
Actually, the grid systems we were using earlier are defined within containers.
You can specify a container to be fluid, that way, it is not constrained to be
one of "small, medium, or large" (sm, md, lg), rather it will always take up
100% of the screen regardless of the width.

Icons
There's a website called fontawesome.com which has all these free icons that can
be used for commercial purposes, like the apple icon or the Google Play Store,
etc. You just need to add the fontawesome CDN to your website, similar to Google
fonts, and you can start using their icons. You can add hover states, colors,
etc. For larger icons, just specify fa-2x etc. as the class of the icon. :)
