COLOR THEORY
The art and science of creating the right color palette for your website.

Red     - Car advertisements. Conveys intensity, passion, love.
Yellow  - Bikini ads. Very attention grabbing. Don't use it on anything that
          will have to be looked at for a long time.
Green   - Groceries ads. Freshness. Food. etc.
Blue    - Financial companies. Conveys trust, stability.
Purple  - Pay-day loans. Conveys royalty, wealth, femininity.

Combining colors is the more sciency part.
- You can take two colors right next to each other on the color wheel to design
  a logo vs background or text vs navigation bar. These are called analogous
  colors and go well together for these types of scenarios. But it's not good
  for standing out.
- If you want your colors to pop, then you select two colors from opposite ends
  of the color palette. These are called complementary colors, or clashing
  colors. You see this often in grocery stores when they put green barriers
  between different types of meat to make the red color of the meat pop out more
  to seem more fresh and contrasted vs the green.
- But don't do this for text. Keep it for things like logos or icons, things
  that you want to stand out.
- You can also create palettes by "triangulating" or using a perfect square to
  link colors on the wheel. colorhunt.io is a resource for a bunch of different
  color palettes.


TYPOGRAPHY
Fonts matter.

Serif typefaces show little feet at the bases of letters. It derives from marble
sculpting. You used to not be able to exit a carving with your chisel at a 90
degree angle, so you'd have to put flat feet at the base of letters. It also
might be derived from sculptors needing to even out flares at the ends of brush
strokes of the tracings they were sculpting over So Serif fonts look more
authoritative and older.

There are different types of serif typefaces: Old-Style, Transitional, Modern.

You can tell how old a typeface is by examining the difference between the
thickest part of a letter vs the thinnest part of a letter. The more modern a
typeface is, the larger the discrepancy. So if you want authoritative but
modern, go with serif fonts that are in the modern family (large discrepancy).
VOGUE is modern-Serif Typeface. If you want authoritative but are running a
rustic winery, maybe serif-Old Style is better.

Different fonts signal different moods.

Sans-serif fonts have right angles. They're more friendly, more approachable.
Generally used for body text. Start-ups tend to use these fonts to seem
approachable, humanist.

Try to stick to only 2 fonts of a similar mood and a similar time period. You
don't want too many, which could appear cluttered, and you don't want to confuse
people. To contrast those two fonts you can choose a serif for the title and
sans-serif for the body (or vice versa) or you could do some type of variation
of font weights (bolding etc.).

Don't use any of the silly fonts, like comic sans. That one in particular seems
to be the archetype of amateur fonts.


UI DESIGN
Establish hierarchy
- What's important? Draw attention to those aspects.
- If you need the client email, then make that the immediate focus.

Layout
- It's kind of hard for users to maintain tracking on text if the line is too
long. Similarly, if it's too short, it'll look choppy. You want to aim for
about 40-60 characters per line.

Alignment
- Maintain consistent alignment if you can
- Also reduce the number of alignment points as much as you can

White Space
- If you space out handbags in a store, they seem a lot more expensive.
- Same with copy advertising. If you remove all the excess, suddenly it seems
like Apple designed it.
- Simplicity and functionality in design is beauty.

Design for your audience
- Don't design for kids the same way you would for adults


UX DESIGN
Design is us imposing on the user. User experience is the user imposing on us.
If there's alignment, the user experience ought to be seamless. Reed college
case study of not paving walking paths through the quad until a year after
students carved their own paths by just walking on the routes that were most
important to them.

Simplicity:           opt for simplicity
Consistency:          maintain design throughout website
Reading Patterns:     keep the "F pattern" in mind. Keep important stuff on the
                      left and guide the eyes from left to right.
                      Also the "Z pattern" across a page (self-explanatory)
All platform design:  Design for desktop AND mobile. Also wide screen desktops,
                      etc.
Avoid excess banners: Don't have so many warning or cookie banners on mobile That
                      it squashes content.
Don't be an asshole:  Don't put a thin line that looks like a scratch or hair to
                      get users to try to brush it away and accidentally click
                      on it.

There is a website called Daily UI, which gives you a task to design everyday
for 100 days. It'll help you get better at web design. There's an associated
website called collect UI which is a collection of attempts to solve some of
those tasks by users.

canva.com is a website that helps you quickly design and visualize website ideas.
It's an online graphics editing program. You can mock something up for feedback
and then proceed through HTML/CSS accordingly.
